[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to revise
conventional cell referencing in Excel and
introduce an exciting
alternative called Named Ranges.
Now that our data is all transformed and
cleaned we're ready to start
performing calculations.
And the first things I would like to
do is work out the late charge for
each of the overdue invoices.
Late charge is calculated by taking
0.36% of the invoice amount and
multiplying it by the days overdue.
So let's see how we do this.
I'm going to click into M5 and
type "=".
We'll grab our Amount,
multiply that by our Over Due By,
and then times that by our Penalty Rate.
When we press enter,
there's our Late Charge.
But when I come to copy it down,
we have a problem.
Now, the reason for this is when
we create an Excel calculation and
copy it down, the cells it's
referring to move down as well.
This is called relative referencing and
it's the reason we can
normally copy our formulas.
But in the case of the N2, we didn't want
that to travel, we wanted that to stay N2.
So how do we do this?
Well, one option would be to just
times the penalty rate in there.
This is not a good option though.
We really want to always retain
a single point of entry.
So in other words,
if we needed to change our rate,
we would only change it in one place
rather than in loads of calculations.
The other thing is we want our
sheets to be self-documenting.
So it's good that we can
actually see the rate there
without having to go into our calculations
and see what rate is being used.
So it really is good practice
to refer to the rate.
What we need to do is just tell
Excel that that needs to stay fixed,
or what Excel calls absolute.
And we do this by putting a dollar
in front of the column and
a dollar in front of the row for
the cell that we want to stay locked.
Now typing the dollars
will be very tedious.
So instead we're going to
press F4 on our keyboards.
On some computers,
you may need to press Fn+F4.
You'll see that's put our dollars for
us and what that's saying is whether we drag
the formula down or across,
N2 will stay fixed.
If I press F4 again,
you'll see I've only locked the row.
So this will fix it if I drag down but
not if I drag across.
And of course I can press F4 again and
just lock the column.
If I press F4 one more time,
I'm back to relative.
So four options, relative, absolute,
and two mixed cell references.
The one we want in this
case is the absolute.
So I'm going to press Enter,
click back on my formula,
double-click to copy down, problem solved.
And this is a good solution
that you will see used and
you will probably need to use yourself.
The only problem is that when our
calculations get much more complex and
we're pulling data from different sheets,
they become very messy and
very hard to understand.
So we're going to look at a much more
elegant solution called a Named Range.
Let's delete those formulas because
we're going to redo it in a moment.
So I'm just going to press Delete.
And I'm going to come back up to N2.
Wouldn't it be nice if rather
than calling that cell $N$2
I could call it something
sensible like Penalty Rate.
Well, that's exactly what I can do.
And I do it by clicking on
the cell I want to name and
coming up to my name box, which is the
small box to the left of your formula bar.
You'll see at the moment
that cell is called N2, but
I'm going to click in there and I'm going
to change the name to Penalty_Rate.
And when I'm finished typing, I'm going to
press Enter, don't forget that step.
If I click away for a moment to find out
what Named Ranges exist in a workbook,
you can come back to the name box and
click the drop-down list.
They'll all be listed there.
I can see my Penalty_Rate and if I click
on it, it actually navigates me to it.
So the name box can be used to create
Named Ranges and to locate them.
Let's now see that used
in our calculation.
So back in N5, I'm going to type equals,
click on my Amount,
times by my Overdue By,
times by - click on my rate.
But this time you'll see
it uses the Named Range.
And because that name
refers to specific cell,
I'm automatically getting
an absolute cell reference.
So I press Enter, I copy my formula down.
It works perfectly.
It's easier to understand and
I didn't have to worry about the dollars.
You probably realized that there were some
rules about how we name our ranges and
I'll just quickly run through those.
The name can be up to 255 characters long.
It must start with a letter or
an underscore so
you couldn't have 2019Sales,
you have to have Sales2019.
It can consist of any combination of
letters, numbers, and underscores but
no spaces, no hyphens, and most
punctuation characters won't be accepted.
So just stay with the letters,
numbers, and underscores.
They have to be unique,
usually within the workbook,
although we will look at an exception
to that later on this week.
And slightly more subtly,
they can't be a cell reference.
Now, of course, you wouldn't want
to call your Named Range N6.
But here's a mistake
that's quite easy to make.
I've selected these values and I'm going
to name this range Top10, looks all right.
When I press Enter,
can you see the problem?
Top10 is in fact a cell reference.
Any one to three letters followed by
a number is going to be a cell reference.
So solve the problem by
putting an underscore.
All right, I'm going to press
Ctrl+Home just to hop back.
So just to recap then to name a cell,
we click on the cell we want to name,
come to our name box,
type in the name, and press Enter.
In the next video, we're going to
look at some other options for
creating Named Ranges.